My name is Catherine and this is one of the training weekends
for the GB Junior Rifle Squad.
The people that have said to me "Why do you do it?"
"You've given up twenty years of your life."
The most,
best thing you can see is that smile when they walk off the range.
I think everyone here wants to go to the Olympics and win a medal, that's why we're all here.
We come to these events
once a month, we have two days once month through Saturday and Sunday.
We start around about 9 o'clock in the morning
and we go through until 5 or 6 o'clock at night.
Each person
signs themselves in,
then we have a general meeting for everybody.
Then they disappear into small groups with a coach.
I'm Abby Warren and we're The Great British Junior Rifle Squad
and we're training as part of the team.
We've got two different disciplines, sporter and then the precision.
We have people of all ages from about 12, right up to the ones who are turning 21.
Between that they are split into three levels,
we don't split them by age, we actually split them by how far they've got.
Actually, a lot of our shooters here have actually started
with the Air Arms air rifles and they've actually shot through positional with them.
Actually when they come out, when they shoot with the first 2.2's
they're actually about the same shape as the Air Arms rifles.
So what we say to them, they come out they've a bit worried about it being 2.2
and we say pretend it's your Air Arms rifle, just set it up the same.
We start with that and move on.
The GGB weekends are so helpful
because all the coaches, they just know
everything and they can help you with any little adjustments
that you need to make.
From other competitions I'm working on the fact that
nerves,
I've got a technique where just stare into space and it look a 180 degrees and just drop
your mouth and it really helps to relax and your
nerves just disappear.
First of all if you want to get into this squad,
you,
basically you need to first
ring the NCRA.
To get my email address.
Then we will put you on a system,
on a database.
Then anytime you do any shooting
you put the scores into the database,
2 or 3 times a year we look at the database,
call up those who we think have ability
and we will invite you to a weekend where we'll see
and we'll take the best and move them on from there.
Our coaches usually set kind of a guideline
what the timings are and things.
Sometimes, like this morning I know some of the other guys have been doing a masterclass
on a approach to the target, so they'll kind of set up things like that.
Or if you've got stuff you know you need to work on
they're happy for you to go off and do that
in the time slots available.
What I've just been working on today is
standing 2.2 and just my approach coming down onto the target.
I'll then tomorrow I will be looking at my
3 position changeovers.
Like I said no big changes
because it's before competition and we have a few more big ones coming up.
We have
various things that go on here at the same time
and various disciplines
where they shoot three positions
standing, kneeling and lying down which we call prone.
I think I benefit from
having everyone else here
not to compete against as such, but you always see
who's above you and who you're aiming for
and also who's aiming for you.
So it keeps a sense of competitiveness that you want to keep training
and keep going and keep getting better.
Yeah I'd like to get the Olympics
I definitely,
my goal was to go to World University Games this year.
But now they're slightly full.
So I think from there
I'd like to be in the top 10.
These people up to be absolutely dedicated,
they are as dedicated as your sportsman you see on the television during you running,
jumping and shooting whatever. Shooters have to be
exactly the same.
They have to be absolutely dedicated to get to the top.
For more information about Air Arms
and the range precision air guns visit the air-arms.co.uk.
To see more videos featuring the fantastic range of Air Arms rifles
click on one of the links below.
and be sure to subscribe and stay up to date of all of the new videos from Air Arms TV.
You and Air Arms a winning combination.